SP-2973: Updates for Q2 2026 (#63)
lsst/rtn-011: datapreview.tex

\label{ssec:dr1}

LSST Data Release 1 (DR1) will be the first Data Release in which all data products, as described in the DPDD \citep{LSE-163}, are provided for the full LSST footprint \citep{PSTN-056}.
Table~\ref{tab:data-preview-summary} presents a summary of the data products expected in DR1.

DR1 is currently envisaged as being based on approximately the first year of data taken as part of the LSST 10-year survey. 
However, the exact definition of the DR1 dataset remains an open topic of discussion, particularly in light of the early system optimization phase described in \S\ref{ssec:ops-lsst-start}. 
Because this optimization is expected to continue beyond the formal start of the LSST, the data quality and survey performance during early operations may not be fully representative of nominal survey conditions.
In this context, it may be advantageous to define the start date for the DR1 dataset independently of the formal start of the LSST, particularly if the survey begins in a non-representative mode. 
This flexibility would enable the construction of a DR1 dataset that is optimally suited to early static  and non-time-critical time-domain science.

> The criteria used to define (“cut”) the DR1 dataset are currently under discussion in Rubin ticket \href{https://rubinobs.atlassian.net/browse/RFC-1139}{RFC-1139: Proposal for a science-driven set of criteria to cut DR1}.

Reviewer: Suggest we drop this sentence, and not refer to an open ticket in this document.

> This proposal advocates for a science-motivated definition of DR1 rather than an arbitrary definition based solely on calendar time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A proposal under discussion at Rubin advocates for a science-motivated definition of DR1 rather than an arbitrary definition based solely on calendar time.
```
